Only 1% of people could get this video
in a single prompt.
>> [singing]
[music]
>> Because what most people do is write
something like kid dancing in the city
and get an entirely different video from
what they hoped for. Unfortunately,
these are the same people who claim
generative AI tools are bad. But in
2026, the tool isn't the problem
anymore. We're way past the Will Smith
eating spaghetti era now. And honestly,
you can get almost any output you want
as long as you know the secrets to
prompting, which is why in this video,
I'll show you exactly which mistakes to
avoid and the best prompt practices the
pros use in their projects. So you'll be
able to create an even better version of
this video by yourself. Everything we do
today is happening inside Higgs Field,
which I like because it keeps all the
newest AI models in one place. So we're
not jumping between 10 different sites.
And if that's not simple enough, I've
put all the prompts used in this video
in a file below so you can follow along
as we go. Let's dive in. First, let's
get our bearings inside Higgs Field so
nobody feels lost. We'll log in and
toggle our cursor over to video. From
here, we can select whatever we want.
But for all our videos today, we'll use
Seedance 2.0. Don't worry, the layout is
really simple. We've got our prompt box
where we type what we want. We've got a
spot to drop in reference images, and
we've got our generate button. That's
basically the whole thing. Now, the
reason we're using Seedance is that it's
one of the most beginner-friendly video
models out there. And it's seriously
powerful once you know how to talk to
it. So let's start with the very first
choice you'll face. When you make an AI
video, there are two roads you can take.
The first is called text-to-video. That
just means we type out a scene, hit
generate, and the AI builds the whole
thing from scratch. Let me show you what
that looks like. We'll type a simple
description of our subject dancing down
the street. the result we got. Honestly,
that actually looks pretty nice. The
motion is smooth, the vibe is there. But
here's the catch. It's a completely
different kid than the one we want.
Totally different face, and honestly,
his whole look is off. Because when you
only give the AI words, it gets to make
up all the details itself. And the worst
part, we'll get different results every
time. So, text-to-video is fast and
easy, but you're basically rolling the
dice on who shows up. The second road,
and the one I recommend you always take
in your projects, is called
image-to-video. This is where we make an
image first, then bring it to life. And
this is the road that gives us total
control because we get to lock in
exactly what our characters look like
before anything moves. That control is
the whole secret to our hero clip. So,
let's build our character properly. The
key to unlock character consistency
throughout our videos is called a
character board. It's just one image
showing our character from a few
different angles, so the AI has a clear
reference it can lock onto. Let me show
you exactly how we make one. So, inside
Higgsfield, we'll toggle image and head
into Nano Banana Pro, which is our image
model. Then we'll describe our character
in detail. A high school student around
16 with a rounded afro and white
earphones. Then we'll ask the model for
shots of our character from the front,
the side, and the back all in one image.
And look at that. It's essentially the
same kid, same face, same outfit from
every angle. Now we have a 360°
reference of our character, so the AI
has no excuse to change him midway.
Here's a quick tip that'll save you a
ton of frustration. The fewer props you
give your character, the fewer things
can glitch. We actually tested a version
of him wearing a backpack, and the AI
kept giving him a second one on his back
out of nowhere. Check this out. That's a
really good take ruined by a backpack
glitch, so we stripped it back to keep
him clean and consistent. And now this
board is our anchor for everything we
make next. Now that our character is
locked in, I'm going to show you how to
write prompts that actually work. There
are three ways to write your prompt,
going from beginner to pro. Let's start
with the way most people do it and watch
why it fails. A beginner usually types
something lazy, like kid dancing in the
city happy. So, that's exactly what
we'll try. We'll type in that lazy
prompt, hit send, and here's what
happened. We imagined a cool teenager
dancing in New York, but what we got was
straight out of Cocomelon. So, let's try
not to do that again and fix it with a
simple formula. And it goes like this.
Start with a the then action, then
setting, then camera, then style. We're
basically filling the prompt with
information about who's in it, what
they're doing, where they are, how it's
filmed, and the overall look. Watch what
happens when we feed that same idea
through the formula instead. We'll
attach our character board. Say it's a
medium tracking shot of our kid grooving
down a New York sidewalk golden hour.
And the result is night and day.
>> [singing]
[music]
>> That's the power of giving the AI a
clear structure to follow. But what if
you don't want to think about the
formula every time? Well, here's where
it gets interesting. We can hand the
whole job to an AI assistant like
Claude. Then we just tell Claude our
idea in plain English and ask it to
write the prompt for us. And Claude
gives us a prompt optimized to the model
we'll use. This brings us to the way the
pros actually do it. And the way it goes
is we structure the idea ourselves with
the formula, let Claude polish it and
add the cinematic touches, then we do
one final tweak by hand. That's the real
workflow, and it's exactly what we'll do
to build our final clip later. The exact
formula and a Claude prompt builder are
both waiting for you in that free prompt
pack, so you never have to memorize any
of this. Now, before we make our
masterpiece, let's look at the mistakes
that ruin most beginner clips. I made
every one of these so you don't have to.
And honestly, some of these results
surprised me. The first mistake is
trying to fit an entire movie into one
short clip. So, we told our character to
walk, stop at a food cart, buy a drink,
check his phone, cross the street, wave
at a friend, and then dance. Look at
what we got. Aside from the part where
he waved to a clone of himself, the clip
actually looked good. But it's racing.
Every action is crammed in so fast that
the whole thing feels rushed, like
someone hit fast forward. Keep in mind,
C Dance caps its videos at around 15
seconds. So, when you give it 10 things
to do, it sprints through all of them.
The lesson? Give one clip one idea. The
second mistake is not telling the AI
where the camera goes. We prompted the
dance scene, but said nothing about the
shot. And the video that came back was
genuinely really good. So, what's the
problem? The problem is we have zero
control over where it goes. Without
camera direction, the AI picks the angle
and the movement for us, and it's
different every single time. One
generation it pushes in, the next it
drifts sideways, and you can never
predict it. So, we'll add camera
directions in our prompt like slow dolly
in or low angle and take back the wheel.
The third one is sneaky and it's the
most common. When you bring your
character board to life, you should only
describe the movement, not the looks.
But, beginners rewrite the whole
description again, and that's where it
breaks. So, we used our board, but then
redid described his face, his hair, his
whole outfit in the motion prompt. See
that? It showed a version of our
character board in the first frame. So,
our video already looks weird and wrong
at the very start. The fix is simple.
Trust that the model will pick up your
character reference because it will, and
type only the necessary elements you'd
like your video to have. The last
mistake is the number one reason AI
clips glitch hard, and this is similar
to mistake number one, too much motion.
We prompted our character to do a break
dance at full speed, head spins, and
flips. And I'll be honest, my whole body
hurts watching this video. Every frame
has either a glitch or a warp. Bending
his legs in ways legs don't bend, and
the whole thing is moving way too fast
again. When you ask for fast complex
motion, the AI can't keep up, and that's
when hands melt and limbs bend wrong.
So, keep your motion slow and smooth.
And if you need something big, we've got
a trick for that coming up right now.
Remember mistake number one where
everything was way too fast? Here's the
fix, and it's the same trick that makes
our hero clip feel controlled. It's
called [music] timeline prompting.
Instead of one big messy description, we
break the clip into time chunks second
by second. We tell it what happens from
zero to five seconds, then five to 10,
then 10 to 15. And look at that, so much
calmer, so much more deliberate. Each
beat gets room to breathe instead of
everything fighting for the same two
seconds. And here's the best part about
working this way. Because each moment is
on its own line, when something slightly
off, we just tweak that one specific
second and leave the rest alone. Now,
let's talk about the part everyone
forgets, sound. SeeDance can actually
generate audio right inside your video,
and there are three kinds you can ask
for. The first is dialogue. You put the
line in quotes like, "The city feels so
right tonight." The second is sound
effects and the world around him. You
just describe what we should hear, like
a splash of water as his foot hits a
puddle or the hum of city traffic. The
third is the overall mood of the sound,
like upbeat and funky or tense and
quiet. Now, here's an honest tip. For a
full, polished music track, you're still
better off using a dedicated music tool.
But, if you just need quick dialogues
and music baked right into your video,
prompting it straight into SeaDance is
the fastest way there is. And I broke
down this exact audio prompt in the
prompt pack so you can see exactly how
to word them. Now, we know how to lock
our character, write prompts following
the correct formula, and add music to
our clips. It's time to put it all
together. This is the moment
everything's been building to. We're
going to make that exact clip from the
very start of the video. First, we'll
write our idea on a timeline so every
beat is controlled. 0 to 5 seconds, he
struts and sings down the sidewalk. 5 to
10, he spins and stomps in a puddle
right on the beat. And 10 to 15, the
camera lifts up into that beautiful
overhead shot as he dances in the golden
light. Next, we'll copy this idea and
let Claude polish it. Then, we'll take
our character board and bring it in as
our locked reference. Now, here's what
makes this work on the first try.
Remember that shot earlier that was
ruined by a backpack glitch? That same
shot gave us the best funk track of the
entire project. So, instead of trying to
recreate that magic, we'll reuse it. And
the trick is simple. SeaDance can take a
video as a reference, but it can't take
audio on its own just yet. So, we took
that glitchy clip and covered the video
with a solid black screen, leaving only
the audio. That way the AI doesn't get
confused by the old visuals. There's no
bleed in and it only takes the sound.
Then, we tag our references in the
prompt so the AI knows what each one is
for. We hit generate and look at this.
>> All the city feels [singing] so right
tonight.
>> Our character is locked perfectly from
start to finish, and his lips match
every word he sings. The splash lands
right on the beat, and that funky track
is carrying the whole thing. That's the
same clip you saw 15 seconds into this
video, and now you you every single
trick that went into it, which means
you're now ready to start building your
own AI videos on Higgsfield, and you can
click the link below to get started at
just $5. So, now you know how to prompt
AI videos better than 99% of people. And
if that wasn't enough, you can use the
link below to access every prompt from
this video, including that Claude prompt
builder. But, here's the thing, making
one amazing clip is just the beginning.
The real magic is when you start
chaining these clips together into full
scenes and stories without even touching
a video editor. And you can click the
video on screen now to learn exactly how
to do this.